Angular:
It is a framework for building client application using html, css and js/ts
Why do we need angular?
we can code using js only but after the codes get bigger, it will be difficult to maintain.
we need a way to properly structure our application.
There are js patterns available like revealing mudule pattern, prototype pattern.
But they are difficult to grasp for beginner like us.
And applications built with vanilla js, or jquery are hard to test.
So, there are many frameworks available today to make the client application developement phase easier to build and test.
Angular to the rescue!
It keeps our application in a clean structure and loosely coupled which is easy to understand and easy to maintain.
It has lot of utility code that can be reused over a period of time in same or different other applications.
Helps in user navigation and browsers history.
Applications built with angular are easy to test(more testable.)
We can build client application without angular, but with angular it is very easy to build the client application.

Architecture of angular:
Modern application has mostly two parts. Front end and Back end.
Front end we call it UI which is ran at browser and user interacts through it. UI contains HTML, CSS, JS/TS and Angular.
Front end communicates with backend to communiate, process and save the data.
We cannot save or store the data in front end as it will get lost once the user clears the browser data. So storing a data in a front end is not a good idea.
So we store the data in the server. In backend, there are bunch of HTTP services available or APIs to make the datas available to the clients.
HTTP services/API are endpoints that are accessible via the HTTP protocols.
We can call them using simple HTTP Request to get or to post(save) the datas.
Web applications has Front end and backend.
On backend there are One or more databases and APIs to make the data available to the users(clients)
We implement the business logic in the backend of the application.
The frontend or the client are all about presentation. It has HTML templates and the presentation logics of the application.
Logic is all about displaying the data and responding to user actions like what should happen next when user clicks on some button on some events are
triggered.

Creating a first application in Angular
Download latest version of node
It basically is a run time environment for executing javascript code outside the browser.
After downloading the latest version, to check the version of node:
Command : node --version
We use a tool called Node Package Manager (NPM) to install third party library. One of the most important library is Angular CLI.
It is a command line tool which we use to create a new angular project as well as deployable packages.
Command : npm install -g @angular/cli
to ensure that the cli is intalled successfully:
Command: ng --version

Package                      Version
------------------------------------------------------
@angular-devkit/architect    0.13.6
@angular-devkit/core         7.3.6
@angular-devkit/schematics   7.3.6
@schematics/angular          7.3.6
@schematics/update           0.13.6
rxjs                         6.3.3
typescript                   3.2.4

Now that CLI is installed, we create a new angular project.
Command : ng new hello-world

After the new project folder is created, go to that folder and run :
Commnad: ng serve -o

Angular CLI uses a tool called webpack which is a build automation tool. It gets all the scripts and style sheets, combines them and put them in a bundle and then minifies the bundle.
Webpack automatically injects the style tag into the index.html in runtime.
